[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Few subjects
have drawn more attention
and curiosity than that of
disclosure of extraterrestrial
presence on Earth.
Having been at the original
disclosure event in 2001
in Washington, DC,
the hope was that it
would have happened long ago.
But here we are, 2015, and
there are still no signs
that official entities
will be forthcoming
with this information.
Ken Cherry demonstrates why in
his new book, "The Stephenville
UFO," a thinly disguised
work of fiction.
I have to say, I
research a lot, and it
was really refreshing to be
able to glean information out
of a fast-paced work of fiction.
Is that the first work
of fiction you've done?
>> KEN CHERRY: Yes, it is.
I wrote a financial
column for 27 years.
>> REGINA: Oh, wow.
That might be a little
drier than this.
>> CHERRY: Little bit.
>> REGINA: So first of all, tell
us a little background about
your own life and what intrigued
you about the subject of UFOS
at the very beginning.
>> CHERRY: I was an investment
adviser for 26 years,
and I had an interest in UFOs
because of an incident that
occurred when I was
about seven years old.
I never really shared
that with my clients.
>> REGINA: Good thing.
>> CHERRY: They might not
want me to handle their money.
But at any rate, when
I was about seven,
I was alone on a
ranch at the time,
and came through into a
clearing and looked up.
And there was this
silvery object
going across the
horizon, just slowly.
And of course, at
that age, I had
no comprehension of
the types of vehicles,
or aircraft, or
anything of that nature.
Next thing I know, there
was this craft coming down
at a very rapid speed
toward the silvery object.
And I don't know if it
was the glint of the sun
or if there was some
interaction between the object
and the craft, but there was,
like, a lightning or something.
Next thing I knew, the pilot
of the plane bailed out,
and the craft started
billowing smoke
and crashed into the ground.
The silvery object took off.
Back in those days, kids
were to be heard-- I mean,
to be seen and not heard.
So I really never had a chance
to discuss it with anybody.
But whenever my parents would
get together with neighbors,
all they could talk about
was rescuing this pilot
from the trees.
And I later realized that
this was one of our early jets
that had-- it tried to attack
or force down a flying saucer.
And this would have been
about 1952, when we still
had this order standing-- force
them down or shoot them down.
Of course, it never
really worked.
At one point, I
think General Chidlaw
said we were losing
an aircraft a day
around the world trying
to force down saucers.
So they finally gave up on that.
And the saucers, apparently,
we're just in defensive mode.
But at any rate,
later in life, when
I had time to
pursue these things,
I became involved with the
Mutual UFO Network, where
we were supplied a steady
number of witness reports
to investigate--
>> REGINA: Better
known as MUFON.
>> CHERRY: Better
known as MUFON, yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
And it's interesting--
we're going
to get back to the notion
of jets in pursuit of craft
because the stories
start changing.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: And when you were
saying "a silvery thing,"
it just reminded me of
something that was really weird.
When my husband and I at
the time were in London,
we saw these silvery--
whatever they were-- moving
kind of erratically,
but they kept
moving in and out of
the chemtrails that
were in the sky over London.
They'd dart in, dart
out, and then blink out.
And there were half a
dozen or so of them.
And this went on
for a while, and we
were on Portobello Road
and kind of dumbfounded,
standing there, looking at them.
The weird thing was
no one looked up.
No one looked up.
If you're standing like--
oh, my god-- like that,
wouldn't you'd think
someone would look up?
Later on, we went to Hyde Park.
Same thing happened again.
They disappeared and came
back in the afternoon.
And we're standing in
the park looking at them,
and some man came up to us
and said, "Don't do that.
It'll frighten the children."
No one else looked up.
No, he didn't even look up.
That's all he said
and then left.
Don't you think
that's kind of weird?
>> CHERRY: That's very odd, yes.
>> REGINA: The whole thing was
this whole notion of, it's not
within our realm of thinking,
so we just turn a blind eye.
And in the case of
Londoners, didn't even
bother looking up from
their daily routine.
>> CHERRY: Right.
>> REGINA: OK, now, you ended
up deeply involved with MUFON.
And let's talk about your
tenure there and what
you felt you were doing
and the charge of MUFON
was compared to what ended
up being your reality.
>> CHERRY: I became the state
director there for about 12
years.
And over that period of
time, we handled hundreds,
if not thousands, of sighting
reports, investigated them.
At one time, I had over 40
investigators in the state.
Primarily, they were
individuals who would say,
I went outside for a
smoke, and I saw something.
And routinely, we
would check to see
if there was any
explanation for it,
whether it be satellite
or an aircraft
in the area, or just
something of that nature--
a celestial event or
something of that nature.
So for the most part, that
was the typical type of thing.
A less usual would
be where there
were a group of people who would
report that three or four of us
saw something, and that
becomes more significant.
And we had a number of
those over the years
that I was state director.
But in 2008, after I had been
the director for about 10 years
or so, we began to get a
very large concentration
of sighting reports from
about a four-county area.
Bear in mind Texas
has 254 counties,
so that's pretty significant
for as many sighting reports
that we had there as
the rest of the state.
So we knew something
was going on.
In late 2007 and early 2008,
I received a phone call
from an AP reporter
who said, there's
a report of this enormous
UFO down near Stephenville,
and it's reported by
a number of people.
Does this sound credible,
and what are your plans?
And I said, yes,
it sounds typical.
We've had other reports
from a number of people,
and we're going to send
down a team to investigate.
The sighting took place in
2008, and the AP reporter
called me on-- pardon
me-- on January the 10th.
The sighting took place
on January the 8th.
When she put that
out on the AP wire,
suddenly the whole
world became interested.
And when the story went
out in the newspapers,
we had a massive number of
people who called and said,
I saw it too.
And unusually, these
were very credible folks.
Although
Stephenville is a town
of about 15,000 folks
and it is a college town, we
didn't have college students.
We had, for the most part,
middle-aged professional folks
who came forward-- and some in
groups-- many law enforcement
officers, doctors, politicians,
bankers, and so forth,
who also reported seeing
very similar a thing.
So that is probably as
close as it gets to proof.
>> REGINA: So that brought a
lot of interest in from other
agencies?
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: Let's get into
that part of the story.
And then I went to-- I'm kind
of jumping the gun going forward
a bit, but we can
always backtrack later.
>> CHERRY: Right.
>> REGINA: The nature of the
questioning that occurred,
which I found interesting,
in your novel,
and I wanted to ask you if
it was literally the kind
of questioning that was done.
>> CHERRY: In the novel, I've
sort of compressed the time
between the beginning
of the investigation,
and the types of
questions we asked,
and the kinds of answers that
we got later on because this was
such a very hyped story in the
media that the coverage went
on for several months.
And one of the things
that we found--
>> REGINA: Who descended
on Stephenville?
>> CHERRY: Who descended?
Well, the media from
all over the world.
I mean, we had camera crews from
San Francisco, Japan, London,
New York, Houston.
I mean, just when I got
there, at the central location
we had chosen to interview
about 75 witnesses initially,
you couldn't get in the room
there were so many newspaper
reporters and so forth.
The interest from other folks,
from the extra-governmental
types and so forth, came later.
But the kinds of answers
that we got, initially,
were that people
were very excited
and interested about
what they had seen,
and very certain that they had--
this was a once in a lifetime
event that they had witnessed.
However, with all
of the coverage,
it made people hypersensitive.
I think they started reporting
they were saying UFOs
everywhere.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>> CHERRY: And so then it
started a type of a mania there
in the town.
And I think later on that
that was what really took
hold of most of the citizens.
>> REGINA: But
perhaps for a reason.
Now first, before
we go any further,
why did you decide to write
a book that you say is not
fiction, but fictionalized?
Explain the difference
between the two
and why you decided
to write it this way.
>> CHERRY: Well, as I said, the
media coverage was so intense
that I began to be called by
witnesses almost immediately.
My phone rang day and night with
either reporters or witnesses.
And many of them would say,
we've been seeing things here
for many years, and we were
afraid to come forward.
But now it seems
like it's finally
OK to go public with our story.
And when you hear a couple
that's 80 years old that says,
50 years ago, we saw something,
but we couldn't go into town
and tell people because they
would think we were crazy.
And now they could
tell their story.
And yet, they were
so very similar
to the same type of reports
we were getting current day.
But at any rate,
unbeknownst to most people,
the UFOs-- and there
were two basic types
that people were
seeing-- kept coming back
to the same area
over the entire year.
And as a matter of fact, the
one that was so publicized
was in January.
But there was another
major sighting
in October of the
same year that we
purposely tried to keep low-key,
and out of media, and so forth.
>> REGINA: Was it
triangular as well?
>> CHERRY: Yes.
The other type of UFOs,
they were the orbs
that people would
describe as being
as intense as an acetylene
torch, for example.
Some even came very close to
witnesses in their automobiles.
They said there was
no heat, no sound.
And so the animals
did seem to sense
these things, in every case.
People would say my dog started
whimpering, hid under the car,
under the table-- something.
But over that year's time
that the publicity continued,
I began to receive other calls,
other contacts from people who
claimed to be insiders
that said, look,
we want to help you
with your investigation.
Here are things that
you need to look at.
And that changed the
whole direction and tenor
of my investigation.
>> REGINA: How so?
>> CHERRY: Well, for one thing,
I began to question my own
organization, who consistently
denied us of the assets that we
needed to conduct
the investigation.
I started out with
a radar specialist,
who was also a FOIA specialist,
that was assigned to my team.
But soon after, he reported
only to the board of directors
at MUFON.
The spokesperson for MUFON
would go on radio programs
with reporters who were trying
to discredit our investigation.
Subtle things like
that, but of course
denying us some of
the resources we
needed, getting radar report.
>> REGINA: Taking some
of the credibility away.
>> CHERRY: Taking
credibility away.
>> REGINA: And the
radar expert, FOIA--
Freedom of information Act--
he also had access to a lot
of redacted documents
and so forth.
>> CHERRY: Exactly.
So I, with the help
of the UFO hunters,
got another UFO-- I mean,
another radar specialist.
And he was able to--
after several attempts--
to obtain radar information.
At first, the FAA said,
no, it's not available.
It's gone.
Fortunately, this gentleman
had retired as a weatherman
and knew that there were--
>> REGINA: Knew people.
>> CHERRY: Knew people.
And he kept bugging them,
until they finally provided
the information that we needed.
And we did find this UFO.
I mean, it was
not trans-bonding.
And it was where the
witnesses said it was.
In the October
case, the witnesses
reported the UFO being
in specific areas
at a certain time.
And 87% of the cases,
the radar inferential
lined up exactly with them.
>> REGINA: OK.
So I want to get
back to something
you said a bit ago, and then
a question I brought up.
>> CHERRY: Sure.
>> REGINA: So as all this is
transpiring and you say this
kind of mania is occurring,
as a result of this group mass
reaction, that's when some of
the agencies people may have
stepped in and started doing
a different kind of inquiry.
The way you wrote in the book
is the nature of the questioning
was very different
than what you would
have expected of witnesses.
Now is this true?
First of all, did it
happen in this way,
where they didn't
conduct interviews
talking about how
the witnesses were
feeling about this experience?
As opposed to what
happened-- the nuts and bolts
of what happened-- but
more how it affected them.
>> CHERRY: They asked
them what happened,
how did they feel about it, if
they could describe the craft
in terms of, would it be like
looking at a quarter held out
at the length of your
arm, just how would you--
and a lot of the people
did describe it that way.
It was something-- I didn't
know if we're being invaded
or something of that nature.
But that tenor became
more and more persistent
as time went on.
There was a lot
of disinformation
that was, I believe,
purposely aimed
at the public--
scenarios that just
were completely unrealistic.
One reporter said that she
had seen some video that
was taken by a constable there
from his dashboard camera that
showed a UFO with a window.
And through that window, you
could clearly see aliens.
And the dash cam video was held
up by the county commissioners
because this was
owned by the county.
And they had a big question
of, can we release this?
Can we not release this?
And I think she was
counting on the fact
that probably the
public would never know,
so she could just say it.
>> REGINA: She
could say it, yeah.
>> CHERRY: But like the
constable and I became quite
close.
And he said, look, I'll let
you look at these tapes.
Tell me what you think.
And he had three tapes.
The county had-- these
were old VHS tapes.
And they had been recorded
over so many times,
the first two tapes were
just-- I said, toss them.
They're not usable.
The other one was a call that
he answered about 2 o'clock
in the morning to an alarm that
went off at a shopping center.
And he's going through
there and suddenly, he
starts reacting very
strangely, like he's anxious.
And this was typical
of the kind of attitude
that I was talking
about, where people just
were seeing UFOs everywhere.
And he started driving
across the parking lot,
hitting these speed bumps--
bumping up and down,
trying to move the camera.
Well, he adjusted it
as much as he could,
and then he focused
on this one area.
And there were a barrier of
trees along this parking lot.
And to me, clearly on the
other side was a street lamp.
>> REGINA: Not a UFO.
>> CHERRY: No.
You would have to
completely suspend
your sense of whatever
to imagine that this
was a UFO with aliens in it.
But this was what this
reporter had described.
>> REGINA: This kind of
thing was happening, yes.
>> CHERRY: And this was the kind
of thing that was happening.
Another reporter that I'm
sure you know very well,
[INAUDIBLE], took pictures
and put them on her website,
said that this one,
in a series of photos
that had symbols in it, was
an attempt by the aliens
to speak to us and so forth.
So it a long way toward just
making the whole thing into--
>> REGINA: Discrediting it.
>> CHERRY: Describing it, yes.
>> REGINA: Now meanwhile, on
your side of this equation,
you were being sidelined, and
people were coming in above you
and doing their
own investigations,
and cutting you
out of all of that.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: And after
a couple more years,
you really weren't with
them any longer, right?
But along the way, there were
other bits of information
that had been
passed to you, which
I assume is what inspired
you to write this book.
And I want to get
into some of it
because there's a lot
embedded in there.
First of all, you talked
about, in the '50s,
how they were losing a plane a
day in pursuit of alien craft.
Well, now let's
get to the F-16s,
switch supposedly
did a lame pursuit--
>> CHERRY: Right.
>> REGINA: --in Stephenville.
>> CHERRY: The initial
big story that I think got
everyone's attention
was Mr. Steve Allen,
who was a private pilot and
local businessman in the area.
He was out with three of
his friends one evening
on January the 8th.
By chance, one of his
friends who was there
was a career American
Airlines employee as well,
so she had plenty of
experience with aircraft.
And what they reported
was a craft that
was a mile long and
a quarter-mile wide,
that Steve said, we
have perfect visibility.
And he said, I know
the distances that
traveled across the horizon.
I've flown it many
times, and I estimate
it was flying about
2,000 miles an hour.
And it came back a second time
after it had left their view.
They stood there for a
while, and it came back,
this time pursued by F-16s
with their afterburners on.
And he said that at
some point, the UFO just
said, well, I've
had enough of this,
and just left them
sitting still in the air.
And we had a number of other
sightings that same evening
of this same craft.
So it doesn't get
much better than that.
We had so many expert
witnesses-- law enforcement
officers and so forth.
One police officer--
there were three
who came back to the
headquarters and said,
you won't believe what I saw.
And the three of
them compared notes.
But one of them
had been monitoring
traffic-- speed trap,
whatever you want to call it.
Anyway, he said everything
just what quiet.
He was sitting there in
his cruiser, and he said,
that's very odd.
He's on the side of the highway.
>> REGINA: All the animals,
everything went quiet.
>> CHERRY: And no crickets
chirping, nothing.
And he looked up and he said
there was this enormous craft
just looming over him.
So he said, I didn't know what
to do, but I took my radar gun
and I pointed it at
the thing like this.
And he said the first indication
was 18 miles an hour--
I believe it was.
And he said next, it was gone.
Pew.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, OK, now some people
listening to this, this
is reminiscent of
the Phoenix Lights.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: Very similar
experience from the witnesses
on that.
>> CHERRY: Well, there were
some similarities for different
reasons with the Phoenix Lights
and the Stephenville event.
But both of these
were demonstrations.
>> REGINA: Right.
So demonstrations by whom?
>> CHERRY: Well, there's theirs,
and there's ours, and there's--
>> REGINA: Some
collaborated version.
>> CHERRY: Some
collaborated version, right.
>> REGINA: So now the
Stephenville event-- and again,
we're going to kind of go
back and forth in this story.
Was the consensus or
understanding, as far
as you knew, that this
might have been man-made,
a collaboration, or ET a run?
>> CHERRY: What I was told
by a source was that it was
a collaboration, that there
are at least three distinct
groups-- for disclosure,
against disclosure,
and then the others.
>> REGINA: And we're going to
get into that part of the story
in a minute.
I want to set up this.
OK, so saying that,
and before we even
jump into those groups and
kind of the meat of this story,
this technology was a
collaborative venture
between military and
off-planet culture.
Or on-planet
culture, as it were.
>> CHERRY: Right.
I don't want to say off-planet,
but they're non-human.
>> REGINA: Non-human.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
And this is something,
when I was at disclosure,
I remember one of
the people that-- one
of the witnesses,
Mark McCandlish--
had drawings of craft
that he had seen.
I've talked to other people who
had been in hangars, where they
had seen crafts
suspended that appeared
to be using
anti-gravitation technology
that they say was either
a collaboration or maybe,
by this time, actually something
that our shadowy governments
had created themselves.
So how do you start--
how do we start
evaluating this
story when we realize
we have man-made, ET-made,
and collaborative vehicles up
there?
What is the purpose of trotting
out the man-made vehicles?
Well,
>> CHERRY: there's an enormous--
enormous doesn't describe it--
immense power that goes with
controlling this technology.
So you can imagine
why we would want
to have the
technology, or at least
the people at the very top.
And they're also the ones
who are against disclosure
because they want to continue
to maintain control of it.
The non-humans have
a different agenda.
And I don't know if you want to
jump into this right now, but--
>> REGINA: Well,
let's go for it.
I can always go back and
pick up other threads
of the story later.
Let's go for it.
>> CHERRY: Well, there is a
long history of UFO sightings
in and around Erath County.
We found a report that
went back to 1897.
Actually, Mr. Mark Murphy,
who was a city councilman
of the little town Dublin, down
the road from Stephenville,
produced it from their
newspaper office archives.
And as I said, I
had witnesses who
would tell me about things that
happened there 50 years ago.
And so we found
this, that there was
constant sightings over a
very long period of time.
And one of my
sources said, well,
there's a good reason for it.
There are a terrestrial
species who've
been here since the
dawn of mankind,
and they have
installations near there.
And this particular
gentleman said
this information is
highly compartmentalized
among the people who know
within our own government.
And he was aware of
two installations
within the state of Texas.
One of them is where
this craft came from.
And that in all the time
he worked for this agency,
that he had only met one other
person that admitted to knowing
about two other installations.
>> REGINA: You're talking about
extraterrestrial installations.
>> CHERRY: Well, they're
not extraterrestrial per se,
as such.
>> REGINA: What we commonly
refer to as ETs, or EBEs,
or Little Greys--
>> CHERRY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: --those beings who
happened to, as your book is
stating and as
these people stated,
actually they're terrestrial.
They're not necessarily
from elsewhere.
They're right here.
And this is, I think,
a part of the story
that most people would
be surprised at when
they're reading this book.
>> CHERRY: I have interviewed
hundreds of people over
the years.
I don't know how many.
I stopped counting
at 150 people,
just with the
Stephenville event.
And I've been interviewing
people long before that.
And almost to a
person, I would say
that they would accept the fact
that we are visited, from time
to time, by intelligent
beings from other places
in our galaxy, or
even other dimensions,
or even time travelers.
They could accept that.
But I think what-- and
I've heard the arguments
from both the people who just
want disclosure and the people
who don't want disclosure.
And they both have very
powerful arguments.
And one of the more
powerful arguments
from the non-disclosure
folks is that, OK,
people could accept that there
are non-humans coming here
visiting from time to time.
But they couldn't accept,
or sleep at night,
knowing that they live
here in large numbers.
And they're a superior race.
And I think that that
is the big concern,
that it would upset
our entire world--
the economies,
social structures,
religion, you name it,
our power structures.
It is a frightening thought
for a lot of people.
>> REGINA: Do you
know how vast--
is this a global phenomenon?
Are there bases underground
all over the world?
>> CHERRY: Yes.
And one of my sources
is an NSA contractor.
He was instrumental in
creating a new system
for our nuclear submarines.
And on the maiden voyage
of this system-- of course,
he had all of the
necessary clearances
to be on board, to try it out so
he could see how it functioned.
And he said that they were
up in the North Atlantic,
among a good large number
of islands and things
that they were
maneuvering through.
And he heard the radar operator
yell out "fast walker."
And he was nearby, and he
looked over at this huge screen.
And he said this USO
just shot by them
at this incredible speed.
>> REGINA: And did they see
it come out of the water?
>> CHERRY: No.
>> REGINA: OK.
USO-- unidentified
submerged objects.
>> CHERRY: Yes
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> CHERRY: And he turned to the
admiral that was there with him
during this test.
And the admiral just shrugged
his shoulders and said,
we see those all the time.
They're very active underwater.
And they have underwater bases.
>> REGINA: The most common area
for viewing is off the coast
of Los Angeles, out near the--
is it the Channel Islands?
Out that way.
Yeah.
So that appears to be one
area that the can go for--
>> CHERRY: Another area.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
But as you say, this
is all over the planet.
>> CHERRY: All over.
Sure.
Edgar Mitchell-- and
I respect him highly--
said that the ETs
have saved our planet
from nuclear destruction.
And I take difference with
Dr. Mitchell two counts.
First of all, they're not ETs.
And they didn't save us.
They saved the planet.
>> REGINA: To save themselves
and their own cultures.
>> CHERRY: They live here.
They don't want
us screwing it up.
>> REGINA: And this can is a
very different viewpoint than I
even heard, being associated
with all the people
in disclosure.
No one talks about
the fact that-- I
mean, a lot of
people-- Phil Schneider
brought attention to the
Dulce Firefight, for example.
Right?
Can you talk about-- because
people have heard of that.
I think people thought maybe it
was anomalous-- a few ETs had
somehow landed here
and gone into collusion
with the government, and some
kind of kerfuffle happened.
What's more likely what
happened, in your opinion?
>> CHERRY: Well, it
would only be opinion.
From my understanding, there
have been collaborations
that haven't worked out.
We think that they are benign.
But from time to
time, they decide
they have their own agenda,
and we have our differences.
And the underground installation
I speak about in my book
is one of those
examples of where
there was collaboration to
begin with, and then somehow
or another, that didn't work
out, on a working basis.
Now they still have the
scientific back engineering
there.
They had several scientists.
>> REGINA: It sounds like
it's an uneasy truce between
the military, and the shadow
government, and these beings.
>> CHERRY: Well, we're
unequal with them.
And anybody that
thinks that we can just
make an agreement with them and
that they'll stick by it really
doesn't understand.
One of the calls that I got
early on in January of 2008--
or it was more like the
middle of the month--
was from a good friend of
mine that you probably know,
Jim Morris, who is probably--
>> REGINA: Yes.
Love Jim.
>> CHERRY: --one of the premier
conspiracy writers of all time.
But over his 40-some,
45-year career,
he has garnered
many, many sources
that feed him information.
And one day, Jim
called and said--
he knew that I was--
obviously, we're close
and he knew I was involved
in the investigation.
He said, I have
a source that has
been pretty good over the years
who wants to speak with you.
And he said, all I can
tell you is his information
has generally been good.
I said, great.
I'd love to hear from him.
Anyway, the gentleman
said, in early February,
there's going to be
a meeting at the UN.
There is so much that-- this
Stephenville UFO situation
has upset so many
people that they're
going to have a special
meeting with people
from the major
companies-- countries.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Companies too.
>> CHERRY: Companies.
>> REGINA: The company.
>> CHERRY: Well, I often think
we have a corporatocracy--
>> REGINA: Corporatocracy,
absolutely.
>> CHERRY: --rather
than a democracy,
so I get them confused.
But at any right, I said,
well, that's interesting.
So I sort of put that aside.
Then later on, I
did find that there
was a three-day
closed-door meeting.
And the source said that
the general gist of it--
if you want some summary-- is
that the others are getting
unhappy with our-- displeased
with our pace of disclosure,
and that we all need to increase
the information to the public
to get them ready for it.
>> REGINA: From all
the indications--
that you've heard, anyway--
what's in it for them to have
disclosure?
>> CHERRY: Well, first of
all they don't have to hide
anymore.
They don't have to avoid us.
>> REGINA: Don't they think
there'd be a very long learning
curve, where people would
be quite frightened--
if we feel as genuinely unequal?
>> CHERRY: In some respect,
they don't have the same
sensitivities that we do.
>> REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
They're more pragmatic.
>> CHERRY: They're trying to
put their feelings into a little
bottle.
It's pretty impossible for us.
>> REGINA: So to
them, it's simply,
we can all live out in the open.
These collaborations
can be open.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
So it makes logical sense--
>> CHERRY: What's the big deal?
>> REGINA: --to them, and
what's the deal to them?
>> CHERRY: Why should
everybody worry about it?
>> REGINA: OK.
So let me ask you
another question then.
How does this play out with
the subjects of abduction,
for example?
>> CHERRY: Now that is
a tricky question, and--
>> REGINA: Because
of that story,
of course people are
frightened of the notion that
they're living here.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
And I think that to
tell the whole truth
about the relationship
between them
and us over the
history of mankind
is another thing that would
scare the hell out of people.
And I do suspect
that there has been
a good deal of that going on--
the abductions and so forth.
I interviewed a
number of abductees.
Jim Sparks wrote
a book, and he was
the subject of-- and pardon me.
I don't recall.
Oh, John Mack, who was
the Harvard professor that
interviewed so many abductees.
And John Mack claimed that
Jim Sparks over 90% recall
of his abductions.
And Jim and I got to know
each other quite well.
He said, actually, he
just says 90% to be safe,
but I have almost
perfect recall of it.
And so he's one of the many
people who has been abducted
and remembers going
to the classes,
and so forth, and seeing hybrids
and interacting with hybrids,
and so forth.
He once described to me that
he was learning a language
that they can communicate
thousands of times faster.
They use a symbol that can equal
many thousands of our own words
to communicate.
And so I think they're
superior in ways
that we can't even imagine.
But they're also
clinical in that they
don't have the feelings
and emotions that we do,
and they don't relate
to that as well.
So they're taking
people for study.
I don't think.
>> REGINA: Right.
For a study.
People don't want to
be taken for studies.
>> CHERRY: Well, of course.
Someone asked me
why would they keep
taking people to study them
and so forth, probing them
and whatnot.
And I said, well,
how many cadavers
do you think have been
cut up by medical students
over the last 100
and some-odd years?
>> REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>> CHERRY: Why do we keep
studying the human body
ourselves?
>> REGINA: OK.
Well, what about
the notion-- and you
said hybrids-- of
cross-breeding, missing people,
women that have reported--
like Kim Carlsberg
and others-- who have said
they have relationships
with-- well, not relationships.
But their ovum such
as has been used
for cross-breeding purposes.
What about that?
>> CHERRY: Well, we interviewed
Betty Hill very shortly before
she passed away.
And she was still very sharp,
right up till near the end.
And to hear her
describe then what
she described many
years earlier,
you could tell that this was
something that absolutely
just burdened her mind.
I mean, these abductions
and these things are real.
And of course, she
described amniocentesis
before it was a procedure
by the medical profession.
>> REGINA: Amniocentesis.
Yes.
Exactly.
Because she had undergone that.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> CHERRY: So many of the
procedures that people have
described--
>> REGINA: Were common in
the abductee experience.
>> CHERRY: Common in
And oftentimes, we can
find physical evidence
of that-- in other
words, puncture wounds
or implants of one sort or
another underneath the skin.
So what all they're trying
to find out-- who knows?
Maybe it's trying to
introduce some of our--
>> REGINA: Some of our
DNA into their species.
>> CHERRY: Some of our DNA
into their own species, sure.
>> REGINA: Which,
in the long term,
would make practical sense if
they're going to remain here.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: And arguably, they
may have been here before we
were.
Who knows who was here first?
>> CHERRY: Well, we found
very realistic drawings
of saucer-shaped craft
in cave dwellings.
>> REGINA: We have to assume
we have a subterranean culture
that's been living here
all along, side by side.
>> CHERRY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And by and
large, I mean, yes,
we do know the phenomena.
Different circles say
for different reasons
of a lot of missing people--
people do disappear.
>> CHERRY: And they may
have affected our history,
our own development.
>> REGINA: They may have.
Now let me just say this.
OK.
So going back to the, quote,
"fictitious" part of the book.
You made up new
names for characters,
but a lot of these characters,
in one guise or another,
exist in real
life-- people you've
known or been in contact with.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
>> REGINA: This story is
about a man named Marc Slade,
who is you.
You're Marc Slade.
And Marc Slade is an
intrepid UFO researcher
in Texas, who
basically got ousted
because these other
forces came in and started
distorting things.
>> CHERRY: Former marine.
Don't forget that.
>> REGINA: And former marine.
So you are Marc Slade
and quite a character.
And he's in contact
with another,
more sophisticated gentleman
from an agency of some kind,
and who is
encouraging disclosure
and who is encouraging him
to get this work of fiction
out there in the world.
So shall I ask you, I mean, is
that part of your story, where
someone did say to you, why
don't you put all of this
into one amazing fast-paced
story and kind of put
all of the elements and
together that would take forever
to ascertain separately?
>> CHERRY: Yes, this Mr.
Drake is a real person,
based on a real
person, as is Gladys,
who's another
carrier in the book.
But I had people from the
CIA, NSA, law enforcement,
military-- just
well-informed people who
work with the government
in various capacities.
It's amazing to me how many
hundreds, if not thousands,
of people must have
access to this knowledge
about our secret space program,
about the terrestrial beings
that are living
here on the Earth
with us, about our back
engineer technology,
about the alien technology,
about abduction.
I mean, there are a
huge number of people
that are aware of this.
And yet, they can't come
forward and tell about it.
But for some reason
or another, with all
of the stories about me
that appeared everywhere,
they seized upon
me as the person
they wanted to tell to
get this story out there
because they could not.
And one NASA scientist
actually died
of-- suspicious
circumstances, we'll say.
>> REGINA: Not
uncommon in that world.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
But going back to your
question about Mr. Drake,
he was an older
man when I met him.
And he told me this story.
And he said that as a young
man, he had joined the OSS.
>> REGINA: Precursor to CIA.
>> CHERRY: Precursor to CIA.
And had been instrumental in the
occupation government of Japan
after World War II, and he had
become close with MacArthur.
And so apparently, had
gained quite a bit favor.
There are stories--
and I won't go
into exactly what he
said-- but that there were
several UFOs shot down
accidentally or on purpose
during World War II
that MacArthur viewed.
And apparently,
Mr. Drake did too,
so that kind of put him
into that box from then on.
He said that much
later on, he was
one of three men on a committee
who made the final approvals
for the black budget projects.
And that one year, the request
was just so huge, astronomical,
that they just couldn't sign it.
He said, we just
could not sign it.
He said it was just
too much money.
So they called some four-star
general in front of the panel
and said, this is so much
larger than last year
and there's no oversight.
We don't know where
the money's going.
We're not going
to sign it till--
>> REGINA: Who is this panel
that authorizes a black budget,
which is supposed
to be mysterious?
No one's supposed to know
where the money goes, right?
>> CHERRY: Sure.
Sure.
But even they had a
conscious back in those days.
And so they--
>> REGINA: So you don't have
to tell us what it's for.
How much did you say, again?
And it was just too much, right?
>> CHERRY: It was just too much.
And so they told
the general, we're
not signing this until you tell
us where the money's going.
So he said that they
took the three of them
to this enormous hangar, and he
wouldn't tell me where it was.
But he said they opened
up this enormous hangar,
and there were all sizes
of, what he called,
flying saucers in there.
And the general turned
to him and said,
that's where the money's going.
And of course, they
approved it after that.
But that's a scene in my--
more or less-- in my book.
So the crux of
this story, though,
is it that was 1964
that this occurred.
So we have had a
secret space program
at least since the '60s.
>> REGINA: Which clouds
everything about sightings.
>> CHERRY: Everything.
Yeah.
So many of these are our
back-engineered craft.
And of course, you
and I both know
that powerful people,
who have access
to this kind of
technology, are not
going to waste it just flying
around in our own atmosphere.
>> REGINA: Right.
And as far as the kind
of psychological effect
on the people of
the planet, these
can be trotted out
for effect as well.
These can be trotted out to
create very specific feelings
among people, which
can be exploited then
by a highly, tightly controlled
media, which can be exploited
further into agendas,
and legislation,
and so forth based on fear.
And your book does
a really good job,
I think, of just kind of showing
the disparate agendas going on
and why this disclosure thing
is really such a challenge.
>> CHERRY: Well, thank you.
I hope I did an adequate job--
>> REGINA: No,
you did a really--
>> CHERRY: --of describing that.
>> REGINA: No, you
did a really good job.
And I'm just saying you did talk
about, a few times in there,
about how the emotions
of the human species
can be explained by these
sightings and contact.
And it's these agencies that are
keeping very close notes on how
we respond to these
things and now we
can be manipulated as a result.
>> CHERRY: And the
Stephenville experiment--
>> REGINA: Why do you
call it an experiment?
>> CHERRY: Because they did
want to gauge the effect upon
the population.
>> REGINA: That's what I
was alluding to earlier.
>> CHERRY: They picked a small,
middle-class, working-class,
middle-America community--
15,000 or so people, rural.
But you don't want to
conduct this sort of thing
over Los Angeles
and New York City,
or Dallas, or Houston--
some place like that.
You pick a place
like that if you
want to see how the average
person would react to this.
And of course, the F-16s
made a half-hearted attempt
to catch it.
The fact is, the UFO
came back many times.
And there was never a
reaction after that.
So the military--
one of the people
on the base of where these
jets were from I spoke with.
Initially, there was a
major who came out and tried
to poo-poo it, and said it
was an optical illusion.
And of course after
we obtained the radar
proof that there was
a UFO and that there
were F-16s in the area, he had
to fess up and say, oh, yeah,
there was an exercise.
I spoke with a young
first lieutenant--
an Air Force first
lieutenant-- who
had already decided he
wasn't going to make
a career in the military.
He was quite interested
in the investigation.
And he said, we see those on
our radar here all the time,
and we're ordered
not to talk about it.
So they're well aware of the
fact that there are UFOs.
They had no reason to chase
it more so than another
except to make a
public show of it,
just to see what kind
of reaction there was.
Now I'm not telling you that
every member of the military
knows about all this.
This, again, is--
>> REGINA: It's
compartmentalized.
>> CHERRY: It is highly
But both the people who
are for disclosure and who
are against disclosure were
very interested in the effect
that this had.
Initially, the folks who were
for disclosure were clapping,
oh, yay, this is great, because
everybody's taking it so well.
Here's folks that are
basically farmers.
The number one product of
Erath County is dairy farming.
That's the big--
so these are folks
who go to bed early at night.
They don't watch sci-fi
and all this kind of stuff.
They're not prone
to flights of fancy.
And they took it very
calmly, initially.
But with the constant
barrage, suddenly
even the trained observers
were seeing UFOs everywhere.
And I'm talking about a lot of
the law enforcement officers
and other folks-- people
who were pilots and whatnot.
And you could tell that it had
a real effect upon a population.
And that it was just
within two, three weeks,
maybe-- four weeks at
the most, a month's time.
>> REGINA: And you
said in the book,
one of the scenarios is
that people start asking
for answers.
Then they start wanting
their official entity,
such as military and stuff, to
start stepping in to help them.
And so this can create a
drive toward, you might say,
military expenditure and
commitments having to do with,
quote, "off-planet cultures."
>> CHERRY: Certainly.
Protect us.
>> REGINA: Protect us
against these beings.
So this can drive funds and
legislation, and so forth.
>> CHERRY: Certainly.
Well, and of course,
every excuse like this
gives the wrong people--
they stand up and ask
for more control as well.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
OK, so going back a
little bit to the beings
themselves-- the
intraterrestrials
or whatever you want to call
them, that look like ETs-- one
of the things you were
commenting on in the book
is their mind operates
more as a hive mentality.
It's as though there
is a collective cloud
of information, and each of
them are tapped into the cloud.
So if one knows,
than the others know.
>> CHERRY: Yes.
Well, bear in mind that
there are many species that
visit the Earth, and
there are several
that actually reside here.
So they don't all
operate the same,
and their technology
is not all the same.
That's one of the reasons we
are still back engineering
technology.
It's from different sources.
>> REGINA: So aside from
the Little Greys, who else?
What other types of
species have you--
>> CHERRY: Well, of course,
you've got your classic
Nordics, that
everybody wants to me.
I met one gentleman who
said that he was abducted
by crew of Nordic women beings.
And they promised him
that they would reward him
if he'd cooperate.
>> REGINA: Comb his hair.
>> CHERRY: Yeah, that
kind of a reward.
So take that with
a grain of salt.
But there are any number of--
>> REGINA: Different
kinds of species--
>> CHERRY: --different species.
>> REGINA: --that
people have witnessed.
>> CHERRY: And many are more--
some are more like humanoid,
more like us, but more
advanced, obviously.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about
one part in your book.
We have-- oh, we've got
about five minutes left.
That I found interesting is
this adventure or this story
takes us to a Super Collider.
Now let's talk about the
notion of the entities' bases
or facilities--
wherever they live,
whatever you want to call that--
a living quarters being often
associated with military
installations or some kind
of other installation
where they're
underneath that, and kind of,
by virtue of that uneasy truce,
protected.
>> CHERRY: It works both ways.
I mean, we're protecting them.
We're protect-- it's our first
line of defense too, with them.
I was told that that was the
intent of that whole project
from the beginning, was
to place it in that they
knew that there was a--
>> REGINA: Underground
civilization.
>> CHERRY: --non-human
installation there.
>> REGINA: So you're talking
about a Super Collider
in Texas.
>> CHERRY: Right.
Well, it was closed
down for cost overruns.
And I was also told that
those cost overruns were
for a lot of the
extra tunneling that
went on to connect with the
bases of the non-humans.
As a matter of fact,
I was told most cost
overruns on large
government projects
do end up in the black budget.
>> REGINA: Right.
Well, this is-- I have to
say it was-- congratulations
for your first work of fiction.
I mean, you did an amazing job.
It was a page-turner.
And it was also
so-- I thought, god,
I can't wait to meet this guy.
What a story that
you were approached,
to write this story-- I mean,
to be Marc Slade in real life,
to be the real-life Marc Slade.
But let's talk about
the group that you
were in association-- Marc
Slade's in association with.
They want disclosure.
We've talked about the ones
that don't want disclosure.
Just to wrap this
up, let's have a kind
of succinct encapsulation
of the thought of each side.
You already talked
about the ETs.
They say, hey, we don't want
to operate underground anymore.
Probably not bad to have a
little human DNA if they're
going to break
the surface anyway
because our atmosphere isn't
particularly friendly to them.
So let's talk about
the other two sides--
to disclose and not disclose.
What are the lucid
arguments on both sides?
>> CHERRY: Well, I think the
disclose people feel that,
eventually, it's going
to take place anyway,
and that it should take
place as a benign disclosure.
Come out.
Tell everybody exactly
what's happened
over what period of time.
Educate the public.
And in some sense, I
think an education process
has been going on.
>> REGINA: Through
movies, certainly.
>> CHERRY: Through movies.
>> REGINA: Television.
Novels.
>> CHERRY: Harking back
to the Robertson Panel,
that was one of the things
that they recommended,
was that a public
education program begin.
And they named
that, oddly enough,
even the Walt Disney
Company back in the '50s--
>> REGINA: Oh, yes, I remember.
And you said Arthur Godfrey.
>> CHERRY: Arthur Godfrey
was the big radio-- and then,
later, TV-- star of the day.
>> REGINA: You even talked
about Orson Welles and that "War
of the Worlds" scenario,
that that was an experiment.
>> CHERRY: Yeah, the education
process has been going
on for a long time and
has really become popular
in our culture now.
They accept UF-- I
mean, we don't even
call them flying
saucers anymore.
People think of the Enterprise
and that sort of thing.
And you have people who've
been waiting in line for weeks
now to see the new Star Wars.
So that's, again, one of the--
>> REGINA: We're looking
at that as our future.
>> CHERRY: We're looking
at that as our future,
and I think people are much more
accepting than they ever have
been.
And it's for a reason
that we've been
bombarded with these
images for 60 years or so.
>> REGINA: But the thing that's
a little disturbing to me is
that it seems
that, by and large,
most of the scenarios
that are put forth--
in film in particular-- are
quite negative and frightening.
>> CHERRY: Well, there would
be frightening aspects to it.
>> REGINA: But I mean,
intended to scare people,
where we're enemies.
>> CHERRY: Right.
Well, if they're
bad, we could've
been wiped out a long time ago.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
That's my feeling.
>> CHERRY: I mean, when
UNICOM was in its infancy.
So I don't think
it's that so much as
if they just-- I think
they're much more
clinical in their thinking.
And maybe that frightens
people because we
make a lot of decisions with
our heart, and not our head.
And you can't negotiate
with a computer.
>> REGINA: No, and
at the same time,
we want to demonize their--
the whole notion of cattle
mutilation and disappearing
animals, and so forth.
And we want to demonize
them for that kind of work.
And yet, we go to Burger
King and don't think twice
about eating our brethren cow.
And the slaughterhouse
scenario--
it's just a different way
of thinking that, of course,
nobody's comfortable with people
who think differently anyway.
>> CHERRY: Well, one of the
ways that it was put to me was
asking if they liked
or didn't like us.
And somebody said,
well, do you like cows?
Yeah.
But you kill them and
eat them, don't you?
I mean, did you dislike them
the day you killed him, or are
you just-- you know.
So it's not that they
like or dislike us.
It's not that.
It's just that-- I
think in some sense,
alien is far more alien than
most of us can conceive.
We think of humanoids who have
pretty much the same operating
system as we do.
They just look different.
>> REGINA: No.
>> CHERRY: No.
No.
They're completely alien.
And I think that's what would
be scary to a lot of people.
And also the fact that,
well, suddenly, our military
can't really protect us.
They can't control the skies.
So I think that's one
of the reasons there's
been this hectic pace
of back engineering.
It's so we can at least get
up to some level of technology
with them, so that we
can assure the people.
But on the other hand, there
are many powerful people.
Just think of all the
Middle East countries
that have only one
thing to sell to keep
their population peaceful.
And if suddenly oil was
just worthless, I mean,
it would start a world war.
And yet, that kind of
anti-gravity technology
exists, free energy.
>> REGINA: It all exists.
>> CHERRY: It all exists.
And yet, the people
at the very top
that control this
technology do not
want us to have access to it, or
even know about is, as a matter
of fact.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, we could go on, but
we don't have any more time.
And I loved where
you left your book.
So shall I assume you have
another one in the works?
>> CHERRY: I have another one
that's based on a real case.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Because it was a little bit
of a-- you left us hanging.
>> CHERRY: Right.
>> REGINA: Well, anyway--
again, congratulations.
I recommended it.
I'm even giving it for
gifts to a couple of people
that I know who are
curious about this subject,
but aren't going to
digest volume after volume
from various people.
I said, you can kind of get the
gist of it in this one book,
and it's fun.
>> CHERRY: Well, thank you.
>> REGINA: Anyway, thank you
so much, Ken, for joining us.
>> CHERRY: It was my pleasure.
>> REGINA: Of course, there
isn't enough time to get
into the entire plot, which
includes men in black,
and loads of references
to true events and people.
I think anyone would find
this an enlightening and
entertaining glimpse
into a shadowy world
and a profound
subject for humankind.
Again, the name of the book
is "The Stephenville UFO,"
which you can find
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]